📖 Improve provider definition in the glossary (#7260)
kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api: docs/book/src/reference/glossary.md

A temporary cluster that is used to provision a Target Management cluster.

### Bootstrap provider

Refers to a [provider](#provider) that implements a solution for the [bootstrap](#bootstrap) process.

> Bootstrap providers interaction with Cluster API is based on what is defined in the [Cluster API contract](#contract). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bootstrap provider's interaction with Cluster API is based on what is defined in the [Cluster API contract](#contract). 
```

### CAPZ
Cluster API Provider Azure

### Cloud provider

Or __Cloud service provider__

> Refers to an information technology (IT) company that provides its customers with computing resources over the internet, e.g. AWS, Azure, Google, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Refers to an information technology (IT) company that provides computing resources (e.g. AWS, Azure, Google, etc.)
```

The Cluster API sub-project of the SIG-cluster-lifecycle. It is also used to refer to the software components, APIs, and community that produce them.

See [core provider](#core-provider)

### Cluster API Runtime

The Cluster API execution model, a set of controllers cooperating in managing the Kubernetes cluster lifecycle.

### Contract

Or __Cluster API contract__

> Defines a set of rules a [provider](#provider) is expected to comply with in order to interact with Cluster API.
> Those rules can define fields the provider must implement on its own CRDs and/or a list of behaviours 
> the provider is expected to implement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Defines a set of rules a [provider](#provider) is expected to comply with in order to interact with Cluster API.
Those rules can be in the form of CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) fields and/or expected behaviors to be implemented.
```

See [core provider](#core-provider)

### Cluster API Runtime

The Cluster API execution model, a set of controllers cooperating in managing the Kubernetes cluster lifecycle.

### Contract

Or __Cluster API contract__

Defines a set of rules a [provider](#provider) is expected to comply with in order to interact with Cluster API.
Those rules can define fields the provider must implement on its own CRDs and/or a list of behaviours 
the provider is expected to implement.

### Control plane

The set of Kubernetes services that form the basis of a cluster. See also [https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/#kubernetes-control-plane](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/#kubernetes-control-plane) There are two variants:

* __Self-provisioned__: A Kubernetes control plane consisting of pods or machines wholly managed by a single Cluster API deployment.
* __External__ or __Managed__: A control plane offered and controlled by some system other than Cluster API (e.g., GKE, AKS, EKS, IKS).

### Control plane provider

Refers to a [provider](#provider) that implements a solution for the management of a Kubernetes [control plane][#control-plane].

> Control plane providers interaction with Cluster API is based on what is defined in the [Cluster API contract](#contract).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Control plane provider's interaction with Cluster API is based on what is defined in the [Cluster API contract](#contract).
```

See [KCP](#KCP).

### Core provider

Refers to a [provider](#provider) that implements Cluster API core controllers; if you 
consider that the first project that must be deployed in a management Cluster is Cluster API itself, it should be clear why
the Cluster API project is also referred to as the core provider.

See [CAPI](#cluster-api).

# D
---

### Default implementation

> A feature implementation offered as part of the Cluster API project and maintained by the CAPI core team; usually
> default implementation can be swapped out with different implementations. e.g. [KCP](#KCP) is a default implementation for
> a [control plane provider](#control-plane-provider) .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A feature implementation offered as part of the Cluster API project and maintained by the CAPI core team. For example [KCP](#KCP) is a default implementation for
a [control plane provider](#control-plane-provider) .
```

### Infrastructure provider

Refers to a [provider](#provider) that implements provisioning of infrastructure/computational resources required by 
the Cluster or by Machines (e.g. VMs, networking, etc.).
Infrastructure provider's interaction with Cluster API is based on what is defined in the [Cluster API contract](#contract).

> Clouds infrastructure providers include AWS, Azure, Google while VMware, MAAS and metal3.io are bare metal providers. 
> When there is more than one way to obtain resources from the same infrastructure provider (e.g. EC2 vs. EKS in AWS) each way is referred to as a variant.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Clouds infrastructure providers include AWS, Azure, or Google; while VMware, MAAS, or metal3.io can be defined as bare metal providers. 
When there is more than one way to obtain resources from the same infrastructure provider (e.g. EC2 vs. EKS in AWS) each way is referred to as a variant.
```

### Infrastructure provider

Refers to a [provider](#provider) that implements provisioning of infrastructure/computational resources required by 
the Cluster or by Machines (e.g. VMs, networking, etc.).

> Infrastructure providers interaction with Cluster API is based on what is defined in the [Cluster API contract](#contract).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Infrastructure provider's interaction with Cluster API is based on what is defined in the [Cluster API contract](#contract).
```

> Examples for clouds include AWS, Azure, Google, etc.; for bare metal include VMware, MAAS, metal3.io, etc.
> When there is more than one way to obtain resources from the same infrastructure provider (e.g. EC2 vs. EKS in AWS) each way is referred to as a variant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clouds infrastructure providers include AWS, Azure, Google while VMware, MAAS and metal3.io are bare metal providers. When there is more than one way to obtain resources from the same infrastructure provider (e.g. EC2 vs. EKS in AWS) each way is referred to as a variant.
```

> See e.g. [CAPA][#CAPA], [CAPC][#CAPC], [CAPD][#CAPD], [CAPG][#CAPG], [CAPH][#CAPH], [CAPIBM][#CAPIBM], [CAPN][#CAPN], 
> [CAPX][#CAPX], [CAPK][#CAPK], [CAPO][#CAPO], [CAPOCI][#CAPOCI], [CAPV][#CAPV], [CAPVC][#CAPVC], [CAPVCD][#CAPVCD], 
> [CAPVCD][#CAPVCD], [CAPZ][#CAPZ]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See e.g. [CAPA][#CAPA], [CAPC][#CAPC], [CAPD][#CAPD], [CAPG][#CAPG], [CAPH][#CAPH], [CAPIBM][#CAPIBM], [CAPN][#CAPN], 
[CAPX][#CAPX], [CAPK][#CAPK], [CAPO][#CAPO], [CAPOCI][#CAPOCI], [CAPV][#CAPV], [CAPVC][#CAPVC], [CAPVCD][#CAPVCD], [CAPZ][#CAPZ]
```

A resource that does not mutate.  In kubernetes we often state the instance of a running pod is immutable or does not change once it is run.  In order to make a change, a new pod is run.  In the context of [Cluster API](#cluster-api) we often refer to a running instance of a [Machine](#machine) as being immutable, from a [Cluster API](#cluster-api) perspective.

### IPAM provider

Refers to a [provider](#provider) that allows Cluster API to interact with IPAM solutions.

> IPAM providers interaction with Cluster API is based on the `IPAddressClaim` and `IPAddress` API types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IPAM provider's interaction with Cluster API is based on the `IPAddressClaim` and `IPAddress` API types.
```

### Provider

Or __Cluster API provider__

This term was originally used as abbreviation for [Infrastructure provider](#infrastructure-provider), but currently it is used

> to refer to any project that can be deployed and provides a functionality to the Cluster API management Cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to refer to any project that can be deployed and provides functionality to the Cluster API management Cluster.
```

See [Runtime SDK](#runtime-sdk)

### Runtime Extensions provider

Refers to a [provider](#provider) that implements one or more [runtime extensions](#runtime-extension).

> Bootstrap providers interaction with Cluster API are based on the Open API spec for [runtime hooks](#runtime-hook).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Runtime Extensions providers interaction with Cluster API are based on the Open API spec for [runtime hooks](#runtime-hook).
```

Reviewer 3: Or maybe Runtime Extension providers (?) (if yes, same in header)

> Runtime Extension providers interaction with Cluster API are based on the Open API spec for [runtime hooks](#runtime-hook).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Runtime Extension provider's interaction with Cluster API are based on the Open API spec for [runtime hooks](#runtime-hook).
```
